Date: Wed, 29 Sep 1999 23:06:30 -0400 (EDT)
From: Phil Nicholson <nicholso@astrosun.tn.cornell.edu>
Subject: HST/RPX CD-roms
To: showalter@ringside.arc.nasa.gov

Hi Mark:

You will be happy to know that, with just a little help from Brian,
I have finally learned how to use that "cup-holder" on my Ultra!

I have browsed thru 3 of the CD's and not found anything amiss so far.
The organization seems very logical & pretty easy to follow, and I like
having all the documentation files on each CD.  The arrangement of datasets
by ID number, while perhaps weird to most users, seems to make the most
sense. (Perhaps the list of the PI and dates for each of these IDs
which I found in the tutorial might be added to the aareadme file
so that a novice user would find it immediately?) On balance, I think
this is better than inventing completely ad hoc identifiers.

I really like all the geometric & photometric parameters you have added
to the PDS labels. I will check some of the photometry numbers tomorrow
against my own notes. Ditto for a few geometry numbers, which Dick
generated for our data. These labels
are also easier to read than the original FITS headers, as they have
all the important info (filter, etc.) up front. 

I also like the mini-images in the browse directory, and the fact
that you have included a solar spectrum and filter profiles.

So far the **ONLY** thing I have found which might be slightly
misleading concerns the methane quad filters with which the bulk of
these data were taken. Strictly, this leads to a different wavelength
for each chip, as the 890 nm portion only covers one chip at a time.
Since sometimes part of Saturn is in an adjacent chip (eg., WF3), this
is seen thru a different methane filter. Is this worth including?
We could figure out from the HST WFPC2 handbook which filter is on
each chip for PC1 or WF3 observations. Right now, your headers
seem to allow for just 1 filter for the whole 4 frames in a file.
Also I presume the calibration data is for the 890 nm filter only;
Pat may not even have that for the other quad segments.

All in all, a beautiful job, Mark!

Speak to you tomorrow at 4:30 pm EDT.

-- phil.

