From:	SMTP%"nicholso@astrosun.tn.cornell.edu" 30-SEP-1999 09:08:45.11
To:	SHOWALTER
CC:	
Subj:	Re: RPX review comments

Message-Id: <199909301603.MAA22299@bilbo.tn.cornell.edu>
Date: Thu, 30 Sep 1999 12:03:35 -0400 (EDT)
From: Phil Nicholson <nicholso@astrosun.tn.cornell.edu>
Reply-To: Phil Nicholson <nicholso@astrosun.tn.cornell.edu>
Subject: Re: RPX review comments
To: SHOWALTER@ringside.arc.nasa.gov
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-MD5: JA/N5PGtUnPZKg7HVm/VCQ==
X-Mailer: dtmail 1.3.0 CDE Version 1.3 SunOS 5.7 sun4u sparc 

Mark:

After reading the other reports, perhaps I should add some additional
comments.

File formats:

I looked
at the CD-ROMs using a Sparc Ultra-1 running Solaris. I was able to
display the GIF files from the browse directories directly with Sun's
image viewer (ie, I just double-clicked on the icons in the File
Manager window). However, SOLARIS did not recognise the .TXT files
as text (it tried to run them...) so I looked at them with the UNIX 
'more' command instead. I have not so far examined the pdf or ps files.
I did unzip one of the label files using my local version of 'unzip',
after copying the file to disk.

FITS images:

Since others used IRAF, I should report that I was able to read the
FITS image files in IDL 5.1 using the 'readfits' command, directly from
the disk and with no problems.  

I carefully compared several
specific images from our own Aug and Nov data sets against my own
copies of these images, just to see that everything was labelled
correctly. All checked out OK.  I even found some images I had forgotten
were taken, so the set seems to be very complete.

GIF images:

I think the fact that you have reassembled all 4 images from each
original HST files with their correct orientation and scale in the
GIF images is a good thing. I found a sketch of the WFPC2 layout in one
of the documentation files. Otherwise the 90 deg rotations of the 
individual PC or WF images could be very confusing.  Perhaps you
could note somewhere (in the volume description?) that the
orientation on the sky of the HST FOV switches 180 deg at opposition,
so the May and Aug images are oppositely oriented to the Nov images.
(This is implicit in the CLOCK_ANGLE values, of course.)

-- phil.

