Date: Thu, 17 Jun 2004 11:33:21 -0700To: Essam Marouf <emarouf@email.sjsu.edu>From: Mark Showalter <mshowalter@mail.arc.nasa.gov>Subject: Re: VG_2803 CD ReviewCc: "Mitch Gordon" <mgordon@mail.arc.nasa.gov>, Dick Simpson <rsimpson@magellan.Stanford.EDU>, "Richard G. French" <rfrench@wellesley.edu>Bcc: showalter2@ringside.arc.nasa.govX-Attachments: Essam,Thanks for your thorough review.  I think we can and should implement most of the changes you recommend.If you have any accessible version of the pre-inversion Uranus data, I would welcome it.  However, it was not in the set of Donna Gresh's processed files that I received.  That's why it is missing.Regarding organization, the main change you seem to be suggesting is to move GEOMETRY and maybe CALIB to the top level; they are currently subdirectories of the S_RINGS and U_RINGS directories.  My thought was that most users would prefer to have all the information about one occultation in one place.  Perhaps I will solicit other opinions on this point.The other possible source of confusion is that the DOCUMENT directory has subdirectories with the same name as are found elsewhere as data subdirectories.  The problem others have encountered is that they forget they are in a DOCUMENT subdirectory, containing documentation only, and are puzzled when they don't find data.  Perhaps I need to revisit the naming scheme of my DOCUMENT subdirectories.  Would that help?  By the way, we also plan to rename the RAWDATA subdirectories because, as Dick Simpson pointed out, the data files found in them are far from raw.How to address the software issues you raise is a difficult challenge.  One of the problems with providing software on a data set is that people always expect more---there is in fact no PDS requirement to provide software. We really don't have the resources to provide compiled versions of our software for different platforms.  For that matter, we don't own that many different platforms to compile it on!  By comparison, the NAIF toolkit is a produced by a much larger operation, supporting many more users and supported by many more dollars.Instead our intention is to provide the source and enough information so that a knowledgeable user can build it, and it's fair to say that we succeeded insofar is you actually did manage to build the programs.  But of course we do want to provide all the sufficient caveats and guidance so that others encounter as few  problems as possible.  If you can provide some details of the initial errors you encountered, we might be able to fix that quickly. (I'm actually surprised at your problem because I thought the Mac cc compiler really is just GNU C, so the difference between cc and gcc ought to be moot.)For what it's worth, we have an on-line service to re-calibrate and resample the PPS data; it is built on top of the libraries provided.  Eventually we hope to have RSS and UVS (and Cassini...) versions of these tools on line as well.  Perhaps that would alleviate some of the frustration you encountered.  We could add a note in the documentation to check the Rings Node web site to see if the desired tool is already available.Note also that we've also gone to a lot of effort to make sure most users never need to build the toolkits---that's the point of all those EASYDATA files at different resolutions.Thanks again for your review.  Our next step will be to update the data set based on all the comments we've received.  We'll provide point-by-point responses to all our reviewers indicating what changes have been made, and then see what more (if anything) needs to be done.--MarkAt 5:22 PM -0700 6/13/2004, Essam Marouf wrote:Dear Mark and Mitch:Attached is my long overdue review of the Voyager radio science ring data archiving CD.  Again, please accept my sincere apology for taking so long to complete it.Thank you both very much for your efforts in preserving this valuable data set.Best regards,EssamContent-Disposition: inline;	filename=VG_2803_review.pdfContent-Type: application/pdf;	x-unix-mode=0644;	name="VG_2803_review.pdf"Attachment converted: Data:VG_2803_review.pdf (PDF /CARO) (000E9B4F)Attachment converted: Data:VG_2803_review.doc (W8BN/MSWD) (000E9B50)