Date: Thu, 25 Mar 2004 15:46:19 -0800To: Dick Simpson 650-723-3525 <rsimpson@magellan.Stanford.EDU>From: Mark Showalter <mshowalter@mail.arc.nasa.gov>Subject: Re: VG_2803Cc: Mitch Gordon <mgordon@mail.arc.nasa.gov>Bcc: showalter2@ringside.arc.nasa.govX-Attachments: Dick,I received the big package with all your written comments.  Thanks very much for the thorough review.  We should be able to respond to most of your concerns in a straightforward manner.However, we're obviously not enthusiastic about the idea of a major re-design of the data set at this point.  That would blow our schedule and postpone this data volume well into the era of Cassini, when we'll be busy enough with other tasks.Let me make a proposal.  We are still awaiting comments from Essam and from Dick French.  Both of them have big stakes in this data set, in particular as it relates to how they will organize their own archive volumes of processed ring occultation profiles for Cassini.  So if their objections are similar to yours, then we'll consider the redesign.  But if they think the current design is generally OK, then we will try to address your concerns as best we can within the current overall structure.In either case a face-to-face discussion might be appropriate at some point.  But let's defer that till we have received the additional reviews.  OK?--MarkI was able to spend some more time looking at the data files duringmy second trip last week.  I'm not anywhere near finished; but maybe weshould discuss how to proceed.  I could help with some major redesigns;but it sounds as though you're not keen on that.  There are lots oflittle problems.  The question is where to put the effort withoutwasting my time and giving you feedback you will never use.I can send you the current set of comments (only about 1-1/2 pages)and a rewrite of /S_RINGS/SORCDATA/DATAINFO.TXT, which may give youa few hints re the 'major redesign'.  It's actually more a matter ofcleaning up the terminology (including better directory names thanRAWDATA); but there could be some reorganization.The problem in the near term is that it takes a while to settle intothe VG_2803 environment; it's very easy for me to forget which filesare which.  Now that I'm back home I have more tools for conductinga review; but there are also LOTS of distractions (including otherwork needing to be done).  So the suggestion of discussing strategyis actually a serious one.