Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2004 15:09:36 -0800To: Dick Simpson 650-723-3525 <rsimpson@magellan.Stanford.EDU>From: Mark Showalter <mshowalter@mail.arc.nasa.gov>Subject: Re: VG_2803Cc: Mitch Gordon <mgordon@mail.arc.nasa.gov>Bcc: showalter2@ringside.arc.nasa.govX-Attachments: Dick,Thanks for the helpful comments.It was certainly not my intention to give short shrift to the Stanford group.  As you know getting permission to reprint published papers is difficult, but I can certainly be more liberal with my references. (In fact I still don't have permission to use Paul Rosen's copyrighted atlas, although I have proceeded on the assumption that he would allow it.)The bias in the documentation is due to the fact that I did so much to make the data set PDS-compliant, easily used, and compatible with the other Voyager occultation data sets.  I felt the need to document that very very clearly.  I thought that the work you guys did was already well documented, but I'm sure I can reflect that work better in the archive.The naming convention follows that of the other Voyager occultation data sets.  I agree that RAWDATA is the wrong name in this case but I will probably leave the other directory names alone.The split between U_RINGS and S_RINGS arose from the fact that the source files for each occultation were totally different--Vax 9-track tapes in the case of Saturn, as you know.  I can reconsider it.Obviously, I tried to conform to the old 8.3 naming convention but maybe that wasn't worth the trouble.--MarkMark and Mitch:I printed a selection of text files from VG_2803 and took those with meto the LPSC meeting.  I took the CD, but have not had much chance tolook at it in detail.  In particular, the directory/file structure andcontents more than 2-3 levels deep remains largely unexplored.ÊI think my impressions may represent those of a novice, biased somewhatby my recollections of participating in the data collection and earlyanalysis phases 20 years ago.  I had very little role in the productionof the files on this CD, however.  That work was done almost exclusivelyby Tyler, Marouf, Zebker, Rosen, and Gresh.I will mail you the pages I printed and marked up.  Although you mayhave problems with my handwriting, I think this is a more practicalapproach than attempting to type the comments into a separate message ormake annotations on the electronic files.  I'll plan to keep a photocopyof the material I mail and you can call with questions if any arise.ÊFor the most part, my mark-up comments are editorial.  I'm off toGermany today; will take the CD and continue the review.1. My first general comment is that an archive of reduced data usuallyincludes a significant discussion about the analysis procedures used totake the raw data to the finished product.  With the exception of a fewallusions to "diffraction correction" and the importance of selectingresolution at the beginning of processing, there is almost nothing aboutthe effort invested by Tyler, Marouf, and a couple generations ofgraduate students in this work.  Virtually all of the documentationcenters on the techniques developed at the RINGS Node to resample theStanford results and adjust them to the J2000 reference frame.  This isimportant; but it should not be the central point of the archive.  Isuggest you consider extracting the relevant parts from ATLNOTES.PDF andinserting them into DATASET.CAT, with an abbreviated version forAAREADME.TXT.  You need a text-only version of ATLNOTES.PDF anyway; thisjust provides additional motivation.2. That the RINGS effort is the true focus is re-enforced by thesomewhat arbitrary labeling of the Stanford data as "source" and "raw".ÊI think better titles might be STANFORD, REFORMATTED, J2000_CORRECTED,and EASYDATA - or something along those lines.  I acknowledge that thismay require a significant effort on your part to revise thedocumentation.  But a poor choice of names at RINGS should not be forcedonto the user community when it is so misleading.  The Stanford data aresimply not "raw"!  Those are the files you should be spending the mosttime describing.3. When I'm trying to understand what is on a CD, I usually start withAAREADME.TXT, then go to DATASET.CAT.  In each of those I found thatthese data came from the Voyager ring radio occultation experiments;but, except for some references to "processing", there wasn't much more.ÊOnly when I got to TUTORIAL.TXT did the pieces start falling into place.ÊAlthough TUTOTIAL.TXT is a longer document, I think you would do betterto take its contents and move those to DATASET.CAT and then put summaryinformation into AAREADME.TXT.  You need clearer statements of what youhave; the present arrangement spreads this information over too manyfiles - and the most useful is not likely to be found very early by thenovice user.  With the exception of the recommendations at the very end,I didn't find much in TUTORIAL.TXT that would help "guide" me throughthe volume; so I don't think it lives up to its billing anyway.4. The appearance of multiple CALIB, GEOMETRY, DOCUMENT, and otherdirectories throughout the volume is confusing.  I can understand whyyou might prefer to keep Saturn calibration documentation with theSaturn data; but you should give the directories unique names.  It isvery hard for the reader, when you mention the "geometry" files, to knowwhether you are talking about files in S_RINGS/GEOMETRY,U_RINGS/GEOMETRY, /DOCUMENT/GEOMETRY, or even /SPICE.  This may seemlike a trivial "context" relationship to you; but I've not put thesedirectories together and don't have the background to understand yourcontext.   I will make the same comment about careless use of "data," "dataset," and "supported."  If you are going to refer to the contents ofS_RINGS and U_RINGS as THE data files, you should be very clear andconsistent in using that terminology.  For example, do the contents ofS_RINGS/CALIB and S_RINGS/GEOMETRY also fit within that title?  Allother files are then presumably "ancillary".  All files in the volumeare part of THE "data set" - the ancillary files do not SUPPORT the dataset, they are part of the data set.  There is at least one place wherethe Saturn and Uranus files are described as separate data sets (seemarkups).  Finally, what does it mean to have "supported" software and"supported" data or data sets?  Some of the material on the CD isapparently NOT supported, and I don't know what that means.5. I assume you used VG_280{1,2} files as templates for this volume.ÊYou need to root out remnants from those earlier data sets - file namesstarting with "U", references to "emissivity", etc.  You also need toget a little clearer on the meaning of "transmissivity," which I take tobe ratio of powers.  You use it in the sense that it has a phase, whichis not possible with power (see markups in DATASET.CAT).  This is a termthat could probably be used more carefully in a lot of places; but let'sbe accurate here, since we're talking about fundamental definitions.6. Your confusion about resolution versus sampling may be reconciled byrecalling that Rosen resampled the original inversions to obtain auniform radial scale (see AATLNOTES.PDF).  If you have complex samples,your Nyquist spacing will be the SAME as your resolution - each complexsample value contains two pieces of information (one real, oneimaginary) so you need to sample only half as often as with realsamples.  In order to achieve uniform radial resolution, Paul may havechosen to OVERSAMPLE in the original inversion; then he wouldn't have toworry about whether his resampling pressed the information limits aroundthe Nyquist rate.  I think it's very likely that this was deliberate andwas done to provide a buffer during his resampling.  It's not surprisingthat you find very little spectral content at frequencies above 1/res;if there were any, Paul's buffer wasn't doing its job.  This doesn'texplain the factor of 8 difference in RU2 and factor of 4 in RU3; but itcovers the factors of 2.  Maybe the others were just experiments.7. You have invested a lot of effort in providing binary files inseveral formats; binary saves something like a factor of 3 in storageover ASCII, depending on how cleverly you represent the ASCII.  If youhave three binary versions, however, you've lost the advantage; inaddition, you have lost the intrinsic simplicity of the ASCII.  Youmight want to reconsider; would a single ASCII version instead of thesemultiple binaries be a better choice in the long run?Regards,Dick Simpson