I have produced a radial profile that incorporates a simplified version
of the dynamics of micron-sized particles (see postscript file
"hamilton.ps").  The eccentricity is assumed to vary sinusoidally under
the combined influences of J2, electromagnetism, and radiation pressure.
The model is rather crude in that it includes only a single particle
size, whereas in reality the dynamics is very sensitive to particle size
(1.0 and 0.8 micron grains follow quite different orbits). 

Dashed Curve: Fit to observations - Mark Showalter's power law 
              (proportional to (a/Re)^-7 inward and (a/Re)^15 
              where Re=3.95)
Dotted Curves: Theoretical contributions of individual satellites
               From the Hamilton/Burns model with the parameters
               given below
Solid Curve: Calculated E ring radial profile (Sum of the dotted
             curves).

Parameters adopted for this fit:

  Source      Source Efficiency  Max. Eccentricity
  Mimas            0.1                0.4
  Enceladus        1.0                0.4
  Tethys           0.1                0.4
  Dione            0.1                0.4
  Rhea             0.01               0.4

These parameters are *not* a best fit. I chose simple yet "reasonable"
values that might be expected in the E ring. Giving Tethys a bit more
material and Dione a bit less would agree better with the theory as
well as providing a closer fit to the dashed line. Changing the
maximum eccentricities to more reasonable values (from Mimas outward:
0.25,0.45,0.55,0.65,0.85) does not change the profile greatly.


Main Results:

1. The extra material inward of Enceladus (3.95) is a robust feature
of the model -- it is very difficult to match the dashed line. I
encourage observers to look for material inside of Enceladus' and
Mimas' orbits.

2. An excess of material near satellites other than Enceladus is
possible (e.g. the Dione peak near 6.25 in the plot), but not required
by all sets of parameters.

3. Material should exist outside of the nominal outer edge of the ring
(8Rs). At the few tenths of a percent level, material should extend to
between 9Rs and 11Rs. Observers with sensitive instruments should be
able to extend the extent of the known ring. 

Doug Hamilton
hamilton@eu1.mpi-hd.mpg.de
18-May-1994
