Calar Alto Observations of Saturn's 1995 Ring Plane Crossings

Lori M. Lanier, Douglas P. Hamilton (U. of Maryland)
and Thomas M. Herbst (MPI fuer Astronomie, Heidelberg, Germany)

        We report on Calar Alto data from the Saturn Ring Plane
Crossings (RPX) that occurred in 1995.  Our data, which consists of
infrared images and spectra taken from the 3.5 meter telescope at the
Calar Alto Observatory in southern Spain, span the dates May 20-22,
August 8-11, and November 20-23. Here we investigate images taken with
a broad band filter covering the 2.1 to 2.4 micron region.  Methane in
Saturn's atmosphere strongly absorbs at these wavelengths which
greatly reduces scattered light from the planet. The camera's plate
scale is 0.33"/pixel, and in our May observations, Saturn's diameter
was 17", the rings spanned 42", atmospheric seeing was ~1".  The
exposure times for our images varied from a few seconds to several
minutes.

        We have performed basic data reduction on our May data by
subtracting a sky frame from each of our images and dividing by a
flat field image. We also replaced all bad pixels with the median of
the surrounding pixels in each image. Once the images were reduced, we
developed IDL routines to calculate the flux from the ring ansae.
Although Saturn's rings are 3 to 4 pixels wide in our images due to
atmospheric seeing, the physical width of the rings is less than a
pixel; accordingly, we produced a one-dimensional profile of the rings.
We then extracted the brightest seven pixel segments of each ring ansa
from the profile. Averaging over seven pixels improved signal to
noise and minimized interference from the planet and nearby
satellites.

        Our analysis of the reduced data shows an asymmetry between
the east and west sides (ansae) of Saturn's rings.  Our ground-based
infrared data indicates that the west ansa is brighter than the east
ansa for 30 hours prior to the RPX, which occurred on May 22 at
5:35am.  This result is in agreement with, and extends, the optical
HST results of Bosh etal. (1997), which show that the west ansa is
brighter than the east for three hours prior to the May RPX. We are
currently refining our data analysis in order to better quantify the
asymmetry. We plan to present plots of the ring flux vs. time for our
May, August, and November data sets.  We also hope to report on
measurements of the positions of the small satellites visible in our
data: Janus, Epimetheus, Prometheus, and Pandora.
