From: "Joshua Colwell" <josh.colwell@lasp.colorado.edu>To: "Mark Showalter" <showalter@ringside.arc.nasa.gov>Cc: "Joshua Colwell" <josh.colwell@lasp.colorado.edu>Subject: PDS disk reviewDate: Tue, 10 Jul 2001 10:51:21 -0600Hi Mark,Here are some comments after playing around with the PDS PPS ringsdisk for a while.  I will try to do more.  The following comments aremostly very minor, with the only major complaint probably fallingoutside your domain.In the Catalog directory: the windows operating systems thinks fileswith a .cat file suffix are security catalog files and tries to openthem with the wrong application.  A note should be put in the readmefor this directory indicating that the contents of these files are inASCII format and can be viewed with a text viewer. Missing fromref.cat is Horn et al. 1990, GRL 17, 1745-1748. In person.dat: changeEsposito's and Simmons's e-mails tofirstname.lastname@lasp.colorado.edu.In the images directory, the datainfo.txt file does not point to thesoftware which can be used to read and view .img files.  Is there someeasier way to see an image than wading through the 100+ page OALuser's guide? If so, please tell us somewhere.In the software/oal/idl directory, the readme.txt file redirects us tothe OAL user's guide, but doesn't give the location and name of thatfile.In software/oal/examples/readme.txt it sas v1.lbl, sgc_0031.lbl andsgc_0031.dat must in the directory to run the examples, but I can'tfind those files.  Why not just include them in the examplesdirectory?  I don't see a "pub/oal" directory which is mentionedthere.Sorcdata directory: no comments.Rawdata directory: no comments.Easydata directory: I looked here for easy views of calibration data. I guess that is in the calib directory, but the datainfo.txt or areadme in the easydata directory should tell us that.Then, in the calib directory, it doesn't contain all the calibrationfiles. I was looking for the PS4R01.dat observation of Vega, but itseems that only observations of Sig Sgr and Bet Per are included inthe directory.  I think all of it should be there.Also in the calib directory in calinfo.txt: in Phil's memo, give thefull reference for "Uranus" chapter by French et al.At the top level in Aareadme.txt, *.pro should be in the list ofsource code files.Finally, aside from looking at the easydata I've had a frustratinglydifficult time getting to look at any other data.  This is largelybecause the software is not friendly to Windows (or apparently linux)operating system. The IDL software I looked at is out of date anddifficult to use.  The embedded comments are cryptic and the OALuser's guide is too long.  The IDL code wants a shared libraryoal_idl.so, but this isn't provided - it must be made. But I didn'tsee any directions for making it, and in any event it would be easier(for the user) just to provide a built version of oal_idl.so for themajor platforms.From an archiving standpoint, it seems to be complete and everythingconnected with the data is apparently very well documented.  I don'thave any comments on that part, and that is the fundamental part ofthe disk.  But somehow it seems to me that it shouldn't be sodifficult for me to get a look at one of the images (I have no ideahow to deal with a VICAR2 image format, and the PDS headers don'tprovide much help, and I can't run the software on my machine).  NowI'm actually going to dig into writing my own programs to extract someof this information, but I doubt that activity will result in anyadditional reviewer-type comments on the disk.Josh-------------------------------------------------------------------------Joshua E. ColwellLaboratory for Atmospheric and Space PhysicsUniversity of Colorado392 UCBBoulder CO 80309-0392josh.colwell@lasp.colorado.eduTel: 303-492-6805Fax: 303-492-6946http://lasp.colorado.edu/~colwell/--------------------------------------------------------------------------From: "Joshua Colwell" <josh.colwell@lasp.colorado.edu>To: "Mark Showalter" <showalter@ringside.arc.nasa.gov>Cc: "Joshua Colwell" <josh.colwell@lasp.colorado.edu>Subject: additional PDS disk commentsDate: Tue, 10 Jul 2001 13:59:28 -0600Mark, the following paragraph, found in the datainfo.txt file in theeditdata directory, should, I think, appear prominently in theuppermost aareadme.txt file to direct people to the editdatadirectory: These are the recommended data files to use for essentiallyall PPS data analysis.  The Rings Node has gone to considerable effortto test and identify the reliable and useful segments of the datafound in the RAWDATA directory.  Further information about how thedata files were edited may be found below and in the PDS label files;see, in particular, the DESCRIPTION fields.I've been trying to get some of the software to work.  For PPS data itseems like your routines are the ones to use.  So I copied them to aSun workstation.  The first problem I encountered was that ftp-ing inbinary mode appended an invisible CTRL-M to the end of every linewhich makes all the compilers barf.  So I retransferred in asciiformat. The documentation file assumes a relatively high level ofcomputer programming knowledge on the part of the user.  Is anidiot-proof step-by-step tutorial beyond the scope of a PDS disk likethis?  If not, it would be helpful here, and then at the highest levelaareadme.txt file a pointer to it so that a first time user is walkedthrough the steps of getting the data from some editdata file into aformat they can look at (Excel, IDL, or just an ASCII printout).  NextI had to chmod +x on all files.  I'm now at the point where it isn'tcompiling because it isn't finding oal.h which is required by some ofthe files in the PROFILE directory, but which is not included in thatdirectory as well.  I would recommend having all files which are usedby a particular set of routines located together.Josh