I.  Compliance with PDS Standards

As far as I could tell, the data are in compliance with the PDS  
standards.  The file naming conventions, file formats, directory  
structures, and header keywords all followed the PDS standards, and  
were easy to navigate given some familiarity with PDS data in general.

II.  Scientific Merit of Data

These are definitely appropriate data to be archiving in the PDS.   
As the "corporate memory" from the Voyager mission slowly fades, it  
is critical that the Voyager data be preserved in a format that is  
easier to use than the original format.  The fact that the data  
also have added scientific value, since they have been recalibrated  
(using new-and-improved calibration files in some cases) is a  
second and equally strong argument for archiving these data.  Now  
that data volumes from more recent spacecraft tend to be much  
bigger in size, the storage of large data sets is less of an issue  
and hence is not a concern for these data.

While some might question the utility of archiving the files  
corresponding to the intermediate stages of the data processing, I  
concur with the decision to include them in these volumes.   
Although it will likely be a rare occurrence, there COULD be  
instances where users would want to redo some of the calibration  
steps but not necessarily all of them.  Including the intermediate  
files would enable this kind of application.

I would argue that this data set is SO relevant that parallel data  
sets for the other 3 Voyager encounters should be developed and  
archived in the PDS.  Is the software that you used for this task  
general enough that it could be applied to the Jupiter/Uranus/ 
Neptune data sets?  [As you know, I had a student working on this  
for the Jupiter data.  She didn't complete the project and has  
since moved on to another position, so I need to pick up where she  
left off... or find another student to do so.]

III.  Usability of Data

Here are some specific issues that I identified in my examination  
of the VGISS data set.  VGISS_0004_peer_review/AAREADME.TXT - file  
is empty.  The AAREADME files in the other directories looked fine.
VGISS_0038_peer_review/VOLDESC.CAT - file is garbage.  I was able  
to open and read the other VOLDESC.CAT files with no problem, but  
when I try to read this one (using BBEdit on a Mac), it comes up as  
gobbledy-gook.

I was able to view the images using NASAView.   However, I was  
unable to use NASAView to look at the tables (e.g. the *.DAT files  
in VGISS_0038_peer_review/MIPL).  I could open them in NASAView and  
it would tell me how many rows and columns the table contained  
(correctly, as compared with the LBL files), but it displayed all  
numbers in the table as 0.  I may be doing something wrong as I am  
not a seasoned NASAView user, but from the perspective of the user  
it was a little tough to figure out.  Section 5.4 of the  

TUTORIAL.TXT file  deals with VICAR tables, and suggests that the  
user read DOCUMENT/VICAR.HTML or .ASC to learn more about VICAR  
tables.  I did that, and I didn't find too much information in that  
document that helped me with this problem.
Comments on documentation are below.

AAREADME.TXT:

- global search and replace:  DOCUMENTS -> DOCUMENT for the name of  
the documentation directory

- in 3rd paragraph of Introduction: "... as found in the  
aforementioned document."  This statement is a little bit ambiguous  
since you mention two documents in the previous paragraph.  Which  
one are you referring to here?

- in 4th paragraph of Introduction: why not include the Smith et  
al. Voyager references, at least for Saturn?

- Section 3.4, 2nd paragraph, last sentence: two -> to

- Section 4.3, 1st paragraph: why not include an example dark file  
name in addition to describing the naming convention?

- Section 4.4: why is the MIPL directory included only on volume  
VGISS_0038?  I'm just curious, actually.  I don't think it NEEDS to  
be in every volume, but I wondered whether the decision to include  
in the last volume of the data set is standard practice or whether  
you had some other reason for putting it there.

PROCESSING.TXT:

In step (6), ADESPIKE:  "... identifying pixels that differ by too  
much from their neighbors..."  How much is too much?  Is there a  
specific sigma cutoff that you used?  If so, I think it should be  
included in this documentation.  If it varied a lot from image to  
image then I guess it's OK not to include it (could you instead  
include a RANGE of sigma cutoff values?).

TUTORIAL.TXT

Section 6, last paragraph before 6.1 starts: you cite a document  
that is "unfortunately not widely available."  Can you provide the  
user with suggestions of where one MIGHT go to get it?  Does the  
Rings Node have a copy?   Surely JPL also has a copy archived  
somewhere?
