Summary of the VGISS peer review December 19, 2006.Participants------------Steven Adams, Charlie Avis, Bonnie Buratti, Nancy Chanover, Mike Evans,Joel Mosher, Kathy Rages, Mark Showalter, Mitch Gordon.Overall peer review outcome---------------------------The status is, "The material did not pass peer review and may need toundergo an incremental review in certain specified areas."A critical issue was identified involving dark current subtraction (seeIssue 1. below). The Rings Node will attempt to identify the source ofthe problem and propose an approach to rectify the problem. The resultsof this effort will be distributed to the panel at which time the panelwill determine whether an incremental review of a portion of the dataset is required. If the panel decides that an incremental review is notrequired, the status of the review will be upgraded to, "The materialpassed peer review and can be archived once a set of panel identifiedliens have been resolved."Summary of key issues and associated liens------------------------------------------TERMINOLOGY: "Image Set". This archive contains multiple image filesreflecting different stages in image processing for each image. For thisdocument, we use the term "image set" to refer to all of the versions(e.g., RAW, CLEANED, CALIB) of a single image contained on a givenvolume.* Issue: Many files have bad dark current subtraction.Lien: The PDS Rings Node will review the images identified as having baddark currents and the dark current files used, the dark currentsubtraction process, and will examine other calibrated files in anattempt to identify the cause of the problem. Once the extent and natureof the problem is identified, the Rings Node will modify the processingto correct all affected files. The results of this process will betransmitted to the panel members.* Issue: The current volume organization, based on the original dataset, promulgates target identification errors from the original dataset.Lien: The PDS Rings Node will reorganize the volumes, arranging the datain chronological subdirectories based on FDS number rather than bytarget.* Issue: Many images and the associated entries in the INDEX filescontain incorrect target identification inherited from the previous dataset.Lien: The PDS Rings Node will correct those target misidentifications inlabels and INDEX files identified by members of the review panel. Anysubsequent corrections will be maintained in an on-line errata site atthe Ring Node.* Issue: The archive should contain geometry information includingcamera pointing and spacecraft trajectory data, and ideally derivedgeometry data such as sub-spacecraft longitude.Lien: The PDS Rings Node will:(a) Add derived C kernels (pointing information) currently beingproduced by the Rings Node and SP kernels (ephemeris and trajectoryinformation) to the data volumes.(b) The panel felt geometry information is more useful in the equivalentof a PDS INDEX.TAB file than in a separate geometry index file. Howevera PDS INDEX.TAB file must contain one record for each file on thevolume, and the panel agreed that duplicating the geometry informationsix to eight times for each image set was not useful.The Rings Node will coordinate with the PDS Engineering Node to find aPDS-compliant approach that will most satisfy this goal. The tentativeplan is to include a minimal PDS INDEX.TAB file on each volume, plus asupplemental index file that contains one record for each image set.(c) Add the relevant geometry information to each label file.(d) At an unspecified later date, the PDS Rings Node will produce anadditional index containing derived geometry information. This will notbe part of the published volume but will be distributed on line.* Issue: Browse images would be useful.Lien: The PDS Rings Node will provide browse directories on each volume.One browse image will be included for each image on the volume (not foreach version of an image set). The browse images will probably be basedon the CLEANED version, although the Rings Node will make the finaldetermination based on tests of representative image sets.* Issue: The VICAR headers on processed image files contain misleadingterms and do not always reflect the best available processing factors.Lien: The PDS Rings Node will improve the documentation (the Rings Nodewill not edit the VICAR headers).* Issue: The ERRATA.TXT files contain very little information.Lien: The PDS Rings Node will update the ERRATA.TXT to includeinformation on such issues as known data corruption and the possibilityof erroneous target identification in labels and indices inherited fromthe original data set.* Issue: Additional relevant documents, especially the Voyager CalibrationReport, should be added to the archive.Lien: The Rings Node will continue to seek permission to include theVoyager Calibration Report. C. Avis will supply additional documentswhich the Rings Node will incorporate (assuming there are no copyrightor other restrictions).* Additional Issues:The Rings Node will address all of the smaller comments raised by thepeer review panel and will provide point-by-point responses.