Hubble Tracks Clouds on Uranus

The rings of Uranus are quite prominent in this near infrared image.

Taking its first peek at Uranus, NASA Hubble Space Telescope's Near
Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS) has detected
six distinct clouds in images taken July 28,1997.

<P>

The image on the right, taken 90 minutes after the left-hand image,
shows the planet's rotation. Each image is a composite of three
near-infrared images. They are called false-color images because the
human eye cannot detect infrared light. Therefore, colors
corresponding to visible light were assigned to the images. (The
wavelengths for the 'blue,' 'green,' and 'red' exposures are 1.1, 1.6,
and 1.9 micrometers, respectively.)

<P>

At visible and near-infrared light, sunlight is reflected from hazes
and clouds in the atmosphere of Uranus. However, at near-infrared
light, absorption by gases in the Uranian atmosphere limits the view
to different altitudes, causing intense contrasts and colors.

<P>

In these images, the blue exposure probes the deepest atmospheric
levels. A blue color indicates clear atmospheric conditions, prevalent
at mid-latitudes near the center of the disk. The green exposure is
sensitive to absorption by methane gas, indicating a clear atmosphere;
but in hazy atmospheric regions, the green color is seen because
sunlight is reflected back before it is absorbed. The green color
around the south pole (marked by '+') shows a strong local haze. The
red exposure reveals absorption by hydrogen, the most abundant gas in
the atmosphere of Uranus. Most sunlight shows patches of haze high in
the atmosphere. A red color near the limb (edge) of the disk indicates
the presence of a high- altitude haze. The purple color to the right
of the equator also suggests haze high in the atmosphere with a clear
atmosphere below.

<P>

The five clouds visible near the right limb rotated counterclockwise
during the time between both images. They reach high into the
atmosphere, as indicated by their red color. Features of such high
contrast have never been seen before on Uranus. The clouds are almost
as large as continents on Earth, such as Europe. Another cloud (which
barely can be seen) rotated along the path shown by the black
arrow. It is located at lower altitudes, as indicated by its green
color.

<P>

The rings of Uranus are extremely faint in visible light but quite
prominent in the near infrared. The brightest ring, the epsilon ring,
has a variable width around its circumference. Its widest and thus
brightest part is at the top in this image. Two fainter, inner rings
are visible next to the epsilon ring.

<P>

Eight of the 10 small Uranian satellites, discovered by Voyager 2, can
be seen in both images. Their sizes range from about 25 miles (40
kilometers) for Bianca to 100 miles (150 kilometers) for Puck.  The
smallest of these satellites have not been detected since the
departure of Voyager 2 from Uranus in 1986. These eight satellites
revolve around Uranus in less than a day. The inner ones are faster
than the outer ones. Their motion in the 90 minutes between both
images is marked in the right panel. The area outside the rings was
slightly enhanced in brightness to improve the visibility of these
faint satellites.

<P>

<A HREF="http://oposite.stsci.edu/pubinfo/pr/97/36.html">
Source: Space Telescope Science Institute</A>
